# **Scripts**

## **`test.sh`**

The section below is the nerve centre of OTTO. Although you can run tests without entering data, this makes things much easier as it creates global constants that can be easily edited as needed without the need to declare them throughout your code.

The idea is that by handing this file to anyone they would be able to fill it in and use this to then run any tests you have within OTTO using differing credentials etc as needed. 

```bash
export HOST="" 
export USERNAME=""
export PASSWORD=""
export OPTIONS=""
export DRIVER=""
export OUTPUT_FILE=""
export OUTPUT_FILE_TITLE=""
export RERUN_OUTPUT_FILE=""
export RERUN_OUTPUT_FILE_TITLE=""
```

### `HOST`

This is the base URL under test. For instance, if most of your tests go to Google first for searching then this could be `http://www.google.com` and you would only need to reference `HOST` in your code. This can then be followed by any additional details within your code if you require.

### `USERNAME` *(optional)*

This is a username for a system login if required. This enables the user to reference `USERNAME` when needing to, without the need to remember different login information.

### `PASSWORD` *(optional)*

This is a password for a system login if required. This enables the user to reference `PASSWORD` when needing to, without the need to remember different login information.

*NOTE it  is not good practice to include passwords for anything in your code. Whilst `DONOTINCLUDE` files and password managers are widely used, OTTO is designed for predominantly closed systems and as such you could include a password here if you choose to but it is advised to __never__ commit these to the repository* 

### `OPTIONS`

This field is where you define the Cucumber tags to be tested. These must be in the format `-t\\@<tag_name>` in order to work. Adding tags is discussed in more detail in the [features README](../features/README.md) but tags are very helpful for organising your tests so it is advised that you ensure all tests are tagged.


### `DRIVER`

This field is the browser driver to be used for testing. The list can be found [here](../features/support/browser_drivers.rb). This is used by the setup scripts so this is a **very important** field to fill in. If not, you will not be driving anything and your tests will fail before they start

### `OUTPUT_FILE` *(optional)*

*Recommend that this is left blank to let the default values be carried through*
This is used to name the initial test report generated by Cucumber and then used to locate this file by the built in report builder.

### `OUTPUT_FILE_TITLE` *(optional)*

*Recommend that this is left blank to let the default values be carried through*
Thi is the title of the test report generate by the report builder. This will be displayed in the header of the initial report

### `RERUN_OUTPUT_FILE` *(optional)*

*Recommend that this is left blank to let the default values be carried through*
This is used to name the rerun test report generated by Cucumber and then used to locate this file by the built in report builder.

### `RERUN_OUTPUT_FILE_TITLE` *(optional)*

*Recommend that this is left blank to let the default values be carried through*
Thi is the title of the rerun test report generate by the report builder. This will be displayed in the header of the rerun report


## **Docker WIP** *PLEASE IGNORE*

## Useful Tips
Entries here can be expanded to suit the exact needs of your project i.e. if you need an additional set of login credentials to be available in your project you can simple add the following code

```bash
export USERNAME1 ""
export USERNAME2 ""

...

PLUGIN_USERNAME1=$USERNAME1
PLUGIN_USERNAME2=$USERNAME2
```

